Since I was a kid, I found that I was good at most things I put my mind to. Math, science, history, you name it – I loved learning and experiencing new things. However, something was missing. As I got older, I started to realize that just being good at things didn’t make for fulfillment, and I yearned for something to focus my energy on. Luckily for me, in middle school, I found the science fair, a way for me to express my creativity and problem solving skills. I started out solving meaningless problems, trying to see which fruits could generate the most electric potential, but I enjoyed going through the problem solving process. 

It didn’t take me long to notice that the most interesting projects all had something that my lemon battery didn’t – genuine potential to change lives and make the world a better place for people. I saw 12th grade students looking at potential cures to cancer and alternate energy sources that actually seemed viable, and realized that if I wanted to make a difference, I would need to dedicate myself to solving problems that mattered.

That got me looking for problems everywhere you could think of. My summers were spent thinking about everything from minor inconveniences to major problems that I or the people around me faced. The summer after 9th grade, I visited the rural area in India where my great-uncle lived and saw that one of the problems they faced there was that arsenic had leached into their water from the soil, but many people couldn’t afford the expensive reverse osmosis filters needed to remove it safely. This inspired me to try and find an inexpensive, equally effective way to remove arsenic from water. For the next few months, I prototyped to find a way to solve this problem, and eventually came up with a solution using copper nanoparticles to adsorb the arsenic. 

I loved going through the process of solving a big, meaningful problem, and when I got to college, I was excited to see that computer science could be used as another tool to solve problems, just as I had used chemistry to solve the arsenic issue in India. Today, that experience of finding problems in the world is deeply ingrained in me. When I look at the world, I see big problems waiting to be solved around rising healthcare costs and education disparity especially. However, I also see smaller problems in my day to day life, like when I have trouble sleeping and waking up, or have difficulty in tracking my poker play in live games. To some people, these smaller problems are simply minor inconveniences, but to me, these problems are worth addressing because they all speak to real issues that many people have with the world. When I look back on my impact, I want to have solved some of these problems, and to be able to say that I have done my part to make the world a better place.